benchmark tools (#925)
dolthub/dolt: benchmark-tools/README.md

## Background

> This folder contains a toolkit for benchmarking Dolt SQL performance. [`sysbench`](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench) is an industry standard tool for benchmarking database performance, particularly MySQL. This directory contains a set of tools for benchmarking Dolt using `sysbench` in a way that should make it convenient for Dolt contributors to measuret the performance benefits their changes deliver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This folder contains a toolkit for benchmarking Dolt SQL performance. [`sysbench`](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench) is an industry standard tool for benchmarking database performance, particularly MySQL. This directory contains a set of tools for benchmarking Dolt using `sysbench` in a way that should make it convenient for Dolt contributors to measure the performance benefits their changes deliver.
```

## Architecture

> The basic goal is to run these tools is, given a commit, to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The basic goal of these tools is, given a commit, to:
```

- run Dolt SQL server
- connect to it using the [`sysbench` MySQL driver](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench/tree/master/src/drivers/mysql)
- execute the benchmarks specified

> In order to to do this in a repeatable way we build Dolt at the specified commit inside a Docker container. We then launch a separate container, install `sysbench`, mount the binary we produced in the build step, and execute the benchmarks specified inside that container for maximum repeatability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to to do this in a repeatable way we build Dolt at the specified commit inside a Docker container. We then launch a separate container, install `sysbench`, mount the binary we produced in the build step, and execute the specified benchmarks from inside that container.
```

## Components
We briefly outline the components used. The main entry points are `run_benchmarks.sh` which takes care of building and running the benchmarks, and `push_output_to_dolthub.py`, which publishes benchmarking results to DoltHub. We also discuss `sysbench_scripts`, which is a way of exposing the `sysbench` scripting API.

### `run_benchmarks.sh`
This is the top level entry point for these tools. Suppose we want to compare our local, potentially dirty, copy of Dolt to some commit, say commit `19f9e571d033374ceae2ad5c277b9cfe905cdd66`. We would then run the following:
```
$ ./run_benchmarks.sh bulk_insert oscarbatori 19f9e571d033374ceae2ad5c277b9cfe905cdd66
```

This will tell `run_benchmarks.sh` to take the following actions:
- build a copy of Dolt at the current commit (noting in the binary name if it is dirty)
- clone Dolt, checkout the specified commit, and build a binary
- run the specified `sysbench` tests with both binaries

If the result of `$(git rev-parse HEAD)` is `c84f34075e55a8e3322f584986ecf808076b309c`, and the repo is dirty then we will get the following:
```

> output/c84f34075e55a8e3322f584986ecf808076b309c.csv

Reviewer: Should this have `-dirty` on it?

Author: Yes, that's a good shout!

- Docker: the binaries are built inside a container
- Python: if you want to upload results to DoltHub, we use Doltpy's tools for pushing data to DoltHub

### Uploading to DoltHub
We can upload the results to DoltHub using `push_results_to_dolthub.py` as follows:
```
python push_outputp_to_dolthub.py --result-directory output --remote-results-db dolthub/dolt-benchmarks-test --branch test-run
```

These results will then be available to the team for analysis, and via our API for rendering on our benchmarking documentation.

### `sysbench_scripts`
This directory contains Lua scripts that implement custom `sysbench` behavior. Above we described `sysbench` as "scriptable". In practice this means defining `sysbench` tests in Lua scripts and passing those scripts to the `sysbench` command. As an example to run `sysbench` using a predefined test one might run:
```
sysbench \
  bulk_insert \
  --table-size=1000000 \
  --db-driver=mysql \
  --mysql-db=test_db \
  --mysql-user=root \
  --mysql-host=127.0.0.1 \
run
```

Suppose we wanted to define custom behavior, or some custom output method, then we would define `sysbench_scripts/my_custom_test.lua`, and then run:
```
sysbench \

>   sysbench_scripts/lua/my_custom_test.lua \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sysbench_scripts/my_custom_test.lua \
```

Author: I think we in fact want to separate `lua` from the scripts directory since we may want to define shell wrappers around the sysbench scripts once we retire the Python code for managing the output.

  --table-size=1000000 \
  --db-driver=mysql \
  --mysql-db=test_db \
  --mysql-user=root \
  --mysql-host=127.0.0.1 \
run
```

> This passes the script `sysbench_scripts/lua/my_custom_test.lua` which is then executed and measured. Here is an example, `bulk_insert`, taken from the [`sysbench` core out-of-the-box SQL benchmarks](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench/tree/master/src/lua):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This passes the script `sysbench_scripts/my_custom_test.lua` which is then executed and measured. Here is an example, `bulk_insert`, taken from the [`sysbench` core out-of-the-box SQL benchmarks](https://github.com/akopytov/sysbench/tree/master/src/lua):
```
